*trunks.txt*         For Neovim >= 0.11.0         Last change: 2025 October 04

==============================================================================
Table of Contents                                   *trunks-table-of-contents*

1. Installation                                          |trunks-installation|
2. Configuration                                        |trunks-configuration|
3. Usage                                                        |trunks-usage|
4. Keymaps for Raw Git Output              |trunks-keymaps-for-raw-git-output|
5. Special Commands                                  |trunks-special-commands|
  - Difftool                                |trunks-special-commands-difftool|
  - Branch                                    |trunks-special-commands-branch|
  - Log                                          |trunks-special-commands-log|
  - Commit                                    |trunks-special-commands-commit|
  - Blame                                      |trunks-special-commands-blame|
  - Stash List                            |trunks-special-commands-stash-list|
  - Show                                        |trunks-special-commands-show|
  - Help Commands                      |trunks-special-commands-help-commands|
6. Miscellaneous Command Changes        |trunks-miscellaneous-command-changes|
  - Git Switch               |trunks-miscellaneous-command-changes-git-switch|
7. Custom Commands                                    |trunks-custom-commands|
8. UI Management (Tabs, Windows, Buffers)|trunks-ui-management-(tabs,-windows,-buffers)|
9. Plug mappings                                        |trunks-plug-mappings|
10. Optional Dependencies                       |trunks-optional-dependencies|
11. Development and Contributing         |trunks-development-and-contributing|
12. Tests                                                       |trunks-tests|
  - Initialization                               |trunks-tests-initialization|
  - Running                                             |trunks-tests-running|
13. Tracking Updates                                 |trunks-tracking-updates|
14. Credits                                                   |trunks-credits|

==============================================================================
1. Installation                                          *trunks-installation*

- lazy.nvim <https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim>

>lua
    {
        "JoeyFitzpatrick/trunks.nvim",
        -- TODO: (you) - Make sure your first release matches v1.0.0 so it auto-releases!
        version = "v1.*",
    }
<

Note: lazy loading is handled internally, so it is not required to lazy load
Trunks. With that being said, if you want to lazy load Trunks, you should be
able to lazy load it however you normally lazy load plugins.


==============================================================================
2. Configuration                                        *trunks-configuration*

(These are default values)

- lazy.nvim <https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim>

>lua
    {
        "JoeyFitzpatrick/trunks.nvim",
        config = function()
            vim.g.trunks_configuration = {
                -- Default configuration
                -- By default, Trunks attempts to prevent nested nvim sessions, in cases
                -- where a terminal opened by Trunks opens an editor (like the commit editor).
                -- Set this to false to allow "nvim inception" to occur (or handle yourself).
                prevent_nvim_inception = true,
                home = {
                    keymaps = {
                        -- NOTE: setting a keymap to nil disables it, e.g. `next = nil`
                        next = "l", -- Move right through home options
                        previous = "h", -- Move left through home options
                    },
                },
                auto_display = {
                    keymaps = {
                        scroll_diff_down = "J",
                        scroll_diff_up = "K",
                        toggle_auto_display = "<tab>",
                    },
                },
                blame = {
                    default_cmd_args = { " --date=format-local:'%Y/%m/%d %I:%M %p'" },
                    keymaps = {
                        checkout = "c",
                        commit_details = "<enter>",
                        diff_file = "d",
                        reblame = "r", -- Display the file as of the given commit, then blame from that commit
                        return_to_original_file = "gq", -- If in reblamed file, return to original
                        show = "s", -- Output of `git show` for the given commit
                    },
                },
                branch = {
                    keymaps = {
                        delete = "d", -- Display a popup with branch deletion options
                        log = "<enter>", -- Display commits for branch under cursor
                        new_branch = "n", -- New branch from branch under cusor
                        pull = "p",
                        push = "<leader>p",
                        rename = "rn", -- Rename branch under cursor
                        spinoff = "S", -- Create new branch off of current, then reset current to upstream
                        switch = "s", -- Switch to branch under cursor
                    },
                },
                commit_details = {
                    auto_display_on = true,
                    keymaps = {
                        show_all_changes = "<enter>",
                    },
                },
                commit_popup = {
                    keymaps = { -- Run git commit with various options
                        commit = "o", -- Just a regular commit (no options)
                        commit_amend = "a",
                        commit_amend_reuse_message = "A",
                        commit_dry_run = "d",
                        commit_no_verify = "n",
                        commit_instant_fixup = "F", -- Run :Trunks commit-instant-fixup
                    },
                },
                diff = {
                    keymaps = {
                        next_hunk = "J",
                        previous_hunk = "K",
                        stage = "s", -- Stage hunk in normal mode, stage selected lines in visual mode
                    },
                },
                difftool = {
                    auto_display_on = true,
                },
                git_filetype = {
                    keymaps = {
                        show_details = "<enter>", -- Show details for item under cursor
                    },
                },
                log = {
                    keymaps = {
                        checkout = "c", -- Checkout commmit under cursor
                        commit_details = "<enter>",
                        diff_commit_against_head = "d",
                        commit_drop = "D",
                        pull = "p",
                        push = "<leader>p",
                        rebase = "rb", -- Interactive rebase from current commit to commit under cursor
                        reset = "rs", -- Reset to commit under cursor
                        revert = "rv", -- Revert commit under cursor, but don't commit changes
                        revert_and_commit = "rV", -- Revert commit under cursor, and commit the revert
                        show = "s",
                    },
                },
                open_files = {
                    keymaps = { -- When available, these open file under cursor in various UIs
                        open_in_current_window = "ow",
                        open_in_horizontal_split = "oh",
                        open_in_new_tab = "ot",
                        open_in_vertical_split = "ov",
                    },
                },
                reflog = {
                    keymaps = {
                        checkout = "c",
                        commit_details = "<enter>",
                        recover = "r",
                        show = "s",
                    },
                },
                stash = {
                    auto_display_on = true,
                    keymaps = {
                        apply = "a",
                        drop = "d",
                        pop = "p",
                        show = "<enter>",
                    },
                },
                stash_popup = {
                    keymaps = {
                        stash_all = "a",
                        stash_staged = "s",
                    },
                },
                status = {
                    auto_display_on = true,
                    keymaps = {
                        commit_popup = "c",
                        diff_file = "D",
                        edit_file = "<enter>", -- Close status UI and navigate to file under cursor
                        pull = "p",
                        push = "<leader>p",
                        restore = "d", -- Display a popup with options for `git restore`
                        stage = "s", -- (un)stage file under cursor
                        stage_all = "a",
                        stash_popup = "S",
                    },
                },
                time_machine = {
                    auto_display_on = true,
                    keymaps = {
                        commit_details = "<enter>",
                        diff_against_previous_commit = "d", -- Diff file against previous commit
                        diff_against_head = "D", -- Diff file against HEAD
                    },
                },
                time_machine_file = {
                    keymaps = {
                        next = "<C-n>", -- Navigate to next revision for file
                        previous = "<C-p>", -- Navigate to previous revision for file
                    },
                },
                -- End of default configuration
            }
        end
    }
<


==============================================================================
3. Usage                                                        *trunks-usage*

1. To use this plugin, simply call git commands from command mode, using the `:G` command. Many commands will simply call the git command in terminal mode, with some improvements:

- The terminal can be remove by pressing "enter", to make it convenient to remove the terminal once you’re done with the output

There are some advantages to using terminal mode for these commands, as opposed
to a regular buffer or printing command output: Command output will sometimes
be mangled when translated to a buffer or printed, this is avoided with a
terminal Command output keeps it’s coloring Existing tools such as `delta` or
`diff-so-fancy` that improve git output can still be leveraged

Note that using the `%` character will expand it to the current buffer’s
filename, similar to vim-fugitive, e.g. `:G log --follow %` to see commits
that changed the current file. The `%` character will not expand if it is
between quotes, so a command like `:G commit -m 'improved performance by 2%'`
won’t expand the `%` character, it will just be `%`.


==============================================================================
4. Keymaps for Raw Git Output              *trunks-keymaps-for-raw-git-output*

When a command outputs raw git output (for example, `:G log -p`), a keymap is
created to show details for the item under the cursor. By default, this is
`<enter>`. Some details: If the current line is a filepath, e.g. `---
a/lua/trunks/_ui/keymaps/git_filetype_keymaps.lua`, it opens the file at that
revision. Lines that start with `---` are the revision before the commit
associated with this change, lines that begin with `+++` are the revision at
that commit. If the line begins with `diff` or `@@`, the previous and next
versions of the file, relative to that commit, are opened in a vim diff.
Otherwise, the commit is opened in the commit details UI.

It’s worth noting that similar functionality already exists in vim-fugitive,
with some minor differences.

Additionally, keymaps are added to open a file under the cursor in a split,
tab, or the current window. These are mnemonic by default: `ow` to [o]pen in
current [w]indow `oh` to [o]pen in [h]orizontal split `ov` to [o]pen in
[v]ertical split `ot` to [o]pen in a [t]ab

There are other UIs for which these "open file" keymaps are added as well.


==============================================================================
5. Special Commands                                  *trunks-special-commands*

Some git commands that are often used, or are normally cumbersome to use, are
handled differently than just running the command in terminal mode. This
typically means opening a buffer that serves as a UI for the command. Here are
the special commands: `:G blame` `:G branch` `:G commit` `:G difftool` `:G log`
`:G mergetool` `:G reflog` `:G show` `:G stash list` `:G {command} -h` `:G
{command} --help`

Note that for any command that brings up a UI: You can close the UI by pressing
`q`, in addition to the normal methods, such as `:q` The jumplist still works
like normal `<C-i>` and `<C-o>` You can view keymaps by pressing `g?`

Using the `:G` command renders a home ui, that will display some status info.
This includes the git status of all changed files, a diff split to display
these changes, and some keymaps to manipulate these files. Use `h` and `l` to
then display the UI for `git branch`, `git log`, and `git stash`, all of which
are further detailed below.


DIFFTOOL                                    *trunks-special-commands-difftool*

Passing commit(s) to Trunks’s `difftool` command, e.g. `:G difftool abc123`
or `:G difftool abc123..def456`, will open a UI that allows for seeing the diff
introduced by a commit, or the diff between two commits. Note that if a commit
range is given, e.g. `abc123..def456`, using the open-file keymaps will use
the latter commit. So in this example, using `oh` to open a file in a
horizontal split would use commit `def456`.


BRANCH                                        *trunks-special-commands-branch*

`:G` commands that display a list of branches, such as `:G branch`, `:G branch
--all`, `:G branch --merged`, and so on, bring up a branch UI, from which
keymaps can be used to view commits, rename branches, merge branches, etc. The
|trunks-default-configuration-section| shows every keymap, as does pressing
`g?` in the branch UI.

G branch commands that do not display a list of branches, such as `:G branch
--delete`, run the command in terminal mode, as if it were a non-special
command.


LOG                                              *trunks-special-commands-log*

`:G log` commands will typically open a UI. The
|trunks-default-configuration-section| shows every keymap, as does pressing
`g?` in the log UI.

When using the `:G log` command without arguments, a default `--pretty`
<https://git-scm.com/docs/pretty-formats> format option is passed to the `log`
command to change how the output looks. Passing a `--pretty` option, such as
`:G log --pretty=full`, overrides the default format.


LOG -L ~

`:G log` has a `-L` flag, as shown in the docs
<https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log#Documentation/git-log.txt--Lltstartgtltendgtltfilegt>.
This can be used to see the commits that changed just the line numbers given,
e.g. `git log -L20,40:example.lua`, to see just the commits that changed lines
from 20 to 40 in `example.lua`.

In many cases, this can be an extremely useful way to search for changes, as
opposed to running something like `git log --follow example.lua`, which could
show commits that made changes that you don’t care about. With Trunks, if you
make a visual selection and run `:'<,'>G log -L`, without passing line numbers
or a file name, it will pass the line numbers and file name automatically to
the git command, making it much more convenient to use.


LOG -S ~

`:G log` has a `-S` flag, as shown in the docs
<https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log#Documentation/git-log.txt-code-Sltstringgtcode>.
This can be used to see the commits that changed the number of times a given
search term appeared in the codebase. For instance, running `:G log -S myFunc`
will show all commits where `myFunc` was either added or removed.

This can very useful. With Trunks, running this command in visual mode will use
your visually selected text as the search term., e.g. `:G log -S` while text
is visually selected.


COMMIT                                        *trunks-special-commands-commit*

`:G commit` will open an editor to create the commit message when that message
is not passed to the command, e.g. `git commit` (no message, opens the editor)
vs `git commit -m "some message"` (does not open the commit message editor).
When the commit message editor is opened, Trunks opens it in the current Neovim
instance. You can write and quit the editor (`:wq`) to apply the message, or
simply close the editor without saving to abort the commit due to an empty
commit message. If the commit message editor doesn’t need to open, the
command will just run in terminal mode like most other commands.


BLAME                                          *trunks-special-commands-blame*

Like vim-fugitive, running `:G blame` will open a blame window to the left,
that uses |scrollbind| to sync with with the opened file. From there, many of
the keymaps for the commit UI also work in the blame UI. The
|trunks-default-configuration-section| shows every keymap, as does pressing
`g?` in the blame UI.


STASH LIST                                *trunks-special-commands-stash-list*

Running `:G stash list` will open a UI, in which you can view, pop, apply, and
drop stashes. Other stash commands, like `:G stash show`, run in terminal mode
like most other commands.


SHOW                                            *trunks-special-commands-show*

Running `:G show` commands will just open their output in the current window.
You can close this with `q` like other Trunks buffers.


HELP COMMANDS                          *trunks-special-commands-help-commands*

Running a git help command, such as `:G commit -h` or `:G log --help`, will
open that help file in the current window. This way, you can use your normal
vim navigation to move through the docs, versus opening a pager. You can close
it by pressing `q` to return to your last buffer.


==============================================================================
6. Miscellaneous Command Changes        *trunks-miscellaneous-command-changes*

Some git commands are changed for convenience.


GIT SWITCH                   *trunks-miscellaneous-command-changes-git-switch*

When running `:G switch origin/some-branch`, with no command options like
`--create`, `origin/` is removed from the command, in order to make
auto-completion work and still allow switch to the branch. In other words, if
the actual command that runs is `git switch origin/some-branch`, you’ll get
an error, but running `git switch some-branch` will create a local branch off
of that remote branch, which is normally what you’d want.

If you pass any options to the command, like `:G switch origin/some-branch
--create`, this behavior is not used.


==============================================================================
7. Custom Commands                                    *trunks-custom-commands*

Trunks provides some commands that are not valid git commands. Instead of the
`:G` command, these custom commands are under the `:Trunks` command, and `:G`
is reserved for valid git commands.


BROWSE ~

`:Trunks browse` opens a tab in your web browser at the remote URL of the
current file. When used in visual mode, it opens the tab with the line numbers
added, assuming the host in question supports this.


COMMIT-DROP ~

`:Trunks commit-drop {commit}` can be used to drop an arbitrary commit. Under
the hood, it’s an interactive rebase that drops the commit, so this is a
destructive command that should be used with caution.


COMMIT-INSTANT-FIXUP ~

`:Trunks commit-instant-fixup {commit}` will apply your staged changes to the
given commit. This is useful for applying changes to a past commit in order to
maintain a logic commit history (think atomic commits). This is a rebase under
the hood, so use with caution.

If no commit is given, a list of commits (e.g. `git log` output) is shown, so
that a commit can be chosen to fixup.


TIME-MACHINE ~

`:Trunks time-machine <optional filename>` creates a time-machine buffer for
the given file, or the current buffer if a file is not given. This displays a
list of commits that changed the file. Putting the cursor on a given commit
will display the diff for that file at that commit. There is a keymap to open
the file at the given commit, plus other keymaps that can be viewed with `g?`.

Once you have opened a file at a revision, there are keymaps to move to the
next/previous revision, as well as open diff splits.


TIME-MACHINE-NEXT ~

In a time-machine buffer, move to the next most recent revision for the given
file. If a diff split is open, re-generate that diff.


TIME-MACHINE-PREVIOUS ~

In a time-machine buffer, move to the previous revision for the given file. If
a diff split is open, re-generate that diff. If this is run on a regular
buffer, open a time-machine buffer at the previous revision for the current
buffer.


VDIFF ~

`:Trunks vdiff` opens a vertical split and uses `vimdiff` to diff the current
file against `HEAD`. You can pass a commit, e.g. `:Trunks vdiff abc123`, to
diff the current file against the same file in the given commit. You can also
pass a branch, e.g. `:Trunks vdiff some-branch`. See |vimdiff|.


HDIFF ~

Like `:Trunks vdiff`, except horizontal instead of vertical. `:Trunks hdiff`
opens a horizontal split and uses `vimdiff` to diff the current file against
`HEAD`. You can pass a commit, e.g. `:Trunks hdiff abc123`, to diff the
current file against the same file in the given commit. You can also pass a
branch, e.g. `:Trunks hdiff some-branch`. See |vimdiff|.


DIFF-QF ~

`:Trunks diff-qf` opens a tab that uses the quickfix list and native Vim
diffing, to support viewing and navigating through diffs. When called without
arguments, the working tree is diffed against HEAD. You can diff the working
tree against any commit or branch by passing it as an argument, e.g. `:Trunks
diff-qf abc123` or `:Trunks diff-qf my-other-branch`.

When `:Trunks diff-qf` is used, a few things happen:

- A new tab opens
- The quickfix list is populated with all of the locations where the working tree differs from the given commit (or HEAD)
- Within this tab, moving to one of the locations from the quickfix list will open a split. The left side is the working tree, the right side is the same file at the given commit. The file and its split are diffed against eachother using `diffthis`.

You can move between locations by selecting them from the quickfix list, or
using `cnext` and `cprevious`, and the tab can be closed with `tabclose`.


==============================================================================
8. UI Management (Tabs, Windows, Buffers)*trunks-ui-management-(tabs,-windows,-buffers)*

When Trunks opens a UI, this will typically either open a new buffer in the
current window, or open a new window in a split. In either case, the window can
be closed with the `q` keymap, which will return you to the last buffer that
was open.

If you want to open something in a non-standard ui, this is supported natively
via command mode: Open `G status` in a left split instead of a full window:
`split | G status` Open `G branch` in a right split instead of a full window
`rightbelow vsplit | G branch` Note that this functionality can be used in both
command mode and in keymaps.


AUTO-DISPLAY ~

Some UIs, such as the status UI, will automatically display another window in a
split when moving the cursor in the main window. The status UI displays a diff
for the file under the cursor The commit details UI displays a diff for the
file under the cursor for the given commit The stash UI displays a diff for the
entire stash under the cursor

To toggle the auto-display, enter the toggle keymap, which by default is
`<tab>`.


==============================================================================
9. Plug mappings                                        *trunks-plug-mappings*

Trunks provides some plug mappings, so you can conveniently create your own
mappings for some actions if you want.


MERGE CONFLICT MAPPINGS ~

Trunks doesn’t have an integrated merge conflict resolution solution
currently, so in the meantime, we have these mappings: (Trunks-resolve-base):
when the cursor is on a merge conflict, keep the "base" code
(Trunks-resolve-ours): when the cursor is on a merge conflict, keep the "ours"
code (Trunks-resolve-theirs): when the cursor is on a merge conflict, keep the
"theirs" code (Trunks-resolve-all): when the cursor is on a merge conflict,
keep all code

To use such a mapping, you can do something like this:

>lua
    -- Keymap to display the commit popup
    vim.keymap.set("n", "<leader>rb", "<Plug>(Trunks-resolve-base)")
<


==============================================================================
10. Optional Dependencies                       *trunks-optional-dependencies*

It is recommended, though not required, to use a tool that improves the output
of git commands. Some recommendations: delta
<https://github.com/dandavison/delta>: used in the demos/examples diff-so-fancy
<https://github.com/so-fancy/diff-so-fancy>


==============================================================================
11. Development and Contributing         *trunks-development-and-contributing*

I welcome users of any experience level to contribute to Trunks and improve the
project. If you’d like to contribute by writing code, please run
`scripts/dev_setup/dev_setup.sh` first, which will set up a pre-commit hook
that runs tests and some checks. The same checks run in CI, but this will help
you catch issues before pushing up code. Note that you may need to run `chmod
+x scripts/dev_setup/dev_setup.sh` first, to set up correct permissions to run
the script.

Improvements to the documentation are also welcome. Additionally, there are
templates for asking questions, bug reports, and feature requests, all which
are also good ways to contribute.


==============================================================================
12. Tests                                                       *trunks-tests*


INITIALIZATION                                   *trunks-tests-initialization*

Run this line once before calling any `busted` command

>sh
    eval $(luarocks path --lua-version 5.1 --bin)
<


RUNNING                                                 *trunks-tests-running*

Run all tests

>sh
    luarocks test --test-type busted
    # Or manually
    busted --helper spec/minimal_init.lua .
    # Or with Make
    make test
<

It’s worth noting that running with `make tests` will download some test
dependencies that add LSP types for `busted` and `luassert`. These are
gitignored.

Run tests based on tags

>sh
    busted --helper spec/minimal_init.lua . --tags=simple
<

We might not have any tagged tests, but to make one, set up as test like this:

>lua
    describe("User management controls #simple", function ()...
<


==============================================================================
13. Tracking Updates                                 *trunks-tracking-updates*

See doc/news.txt <doc/news.txt> for updates.


==============================================================================
14. Credits                                                   *trunks-credits*

Thank you to Samuel Williams and the maintainers of nvim-unception
<https://github.com/samjwill/nvim-unception>. Some code from that plugin was
vendored into Trunks to support preventing nested nvim sessions when opening an
editor from within an nvim terminal, e.g. the commit editor when running `:G
commit`.

Thanks to Tim Pope and the maintainers of vim-fugitive
<https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive>, an absolutely incredible vim plugin
that _heavily_ influenced Trunks.

Thanks to Jesse Duffield and the maintainers of lazygit
<https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit>, a sick terminal git TUI that also
heavily influenced Trunks.

Thanks to Jonas Bernoulli, Kyle Meyer, and the maintainers of magit
<https://github.com/magit/magit>. I’ve never personally used it, but its
wonderful documentation inspired both some features and design priniciples of
Trunks.

Generated by panvimdoc <https://github.com/kdheepak/panvimdoc>

vim:tw=78:ts=8:noet:ft=help:norl:
